So, there was this one time that I was refactoring a small form into a modal. As is the way of forms, I needed a slice of data for that particular DB / application.

I did the usual console log trace first and found that old version was pinging the file that built the page (this was the way in the legacy code base). So, I started looking. The file was only a few thousand lines long - not bad considering the repetition inherent in years of build up - so I was hopeful for a quick resolution

Bounce 1: I followed the logs down to a function that called out to another file.

Bounce 2: In the file I found a function that queried a table that I had never heard of. Investigation found that the table was filled with names(?) that didn't seem to correlate to anything in particular. That value was passed to another file.

Bounce 3: In the tertiary file I found a function that executed the value provided... ??? I didn't know if we had any scripts floating around on our server and I certainly didn't know why running EXEC on a string would trigger a script. So, I asked for help.

Blockage: nobody knew what the hell any of this did. They all blamed someone who was in management now, or someone who had retired, been fired, or jumped ship. Where to go from here? I started randomly searching the strings that were being queried. We didn't have any way to search in multiple files at the same time, and I was a junior, so I didn't think about a looping script or anything clever like that. No, I started opening files in this slice of the application and doing "ctrl+F".

Bounce 4: I found a hit for the specific string that was queried by the old small form I was refactoring. It was a function. The EXEC operation was running the names of functions in different files of our application. This particular function that was executed returned a hardcoded object. I realized that the hardcoded object contained the name of the database where the information was going to be stored and some other general pointer strings. I was... so sad. "This could've just been an email."

What I learned: never name your databases after you application names and then change the application names.
